---
title: "Weekly review: February 21 - February 28, 2021"
sub_title: 
number: 38
categories:
  - daily
excerpt: "The first weekly review"
tags:
  - weekly
  - learninpublic
  - journal
read_time: true
---

Welcome to the first weekly review! The daily dispatch helps me keep track of things on a day-to-day basis, but I don't get to revisit all of the things I learnt. Here's an attempt to revisit the entries, collect everything I learnt during the week, and hopefully process it better.

## What I learnt
### Music

*Composition*
- Use voice leading and chordal melody to make chord changes less jarring and more musical
- Guitarmonies: harmonise with your root note by using 3rds as a starting point in licks. 

*Technique and tricks*
- Pattern recognition is a huge part of learning how to play in scale
  - immediately being able to find 3rds, 5ths, relative minors, and go up the neck to other octaves is huge.
  - the 2 chord is the secondary dominant for the 5 chord: clearly why 2-5-1s work so well! Tension -> release+tension -> full release. 
- Look where you're going: if your eyes stay ahead of your fingers, you're much more likely to land on the right notes
- Fret with confidence: while recording WL5, I realised that unsure fretting was causing some buzzing and string noises. Confidence is huge in playing smoothly. 

### Other

*Podcast stuff*
- keep ideas simple and short -- longer episodes are great but rather painful to edit

*Daily dispatch*
- I didn't fill out a daily dispatch for most of last week thinking it wasn't necessary to put them out, but without the pressure of sharing the work online, I ended up not filling them out at all. Bad call. Daily dispatches return starting tomorrow. 

*Templating*
- remove friction from doing the things you want to do by templating everything that you do do. Hah. doodoo. 

### Ideas on improving the weekly review:
- make it more informative! Use it as an opportunity to 'teach' and make 'guides'. Will help you in the long run. 

## How I'm applying what I learnt:
### Music
- WL5 will be filled with chordal melody and small changes rather than jarring ones
- WL5 will have a lick and a harmony!
- Keep a track of more patterns and observations while practicing 
### Other
- Bringing back daily dispatch

---