---
title: "Weekly review: August 21-29, 2021"
sub_title: 
number: 57
categories:
  - daily
excerpt: "Weekly review"
tags:
  - weekly
  - learninpublic
  - journal
read_time: true
---

Welcome to a weekly review! The daily dispatch helps me keep track of things on a day-to-day basis, but I don't get to revisit all of the things I learnt. Here's an attempt to revisit the entries, collect everything I learnt during the week, and hopefully process it better.

## What I learnt

*Podcast stuff*
- editing and uploading early is a great way to ensure some room to think about eventual improvements to the format

*Writing*
- All my conceptualizing and even preliminary wording is a lot easier and more fun on Notability with the iPad and Apple Pencil. I also enjoy doing it a lot at coffee shops
- The main point of friction for quick post turnaround time right now is illustration time. I'm not sure what I'm going to use and how it's going to work. I'm willing to give myself some more time for the first post in this next series but once that's down I can begin to make posts much quicker than before
- Pmed slots for thoughts and problem solving is a great way to get initial thinking and conceptualisation done for posts

### Ideas on improving the weekly review:
- make it more informative! Use it as an opportunity to 'teach' and make 'guides'. Will help you in the long run. 

## How I'm applying what I learnt:
### Other
- Iterate on the Daily Dispatch to include a broken down version of how to get better at podcasting - could be good for you and for eventual pdfs?
- Think & write everyday - make it a part of your commitments before you add anything else

---