---
title: "27 October, 2021"
sub_title: 
categories:
  - daily
excerpt: ""
number: 69
tags:
  - daily
  - learninpublic
  - journal
read_time: true
---

### [Podcast](http://frndshiptime.com)
**What I did:** 
- dive into the world of radio storytelling
- used Ira Glass' guide and some Gimlet/Longform podcasts to understand what makes good stories
- initial ideas on how I can apply some of those ideas to FT S2

**What comes next:**
- some more playing around with guides and resources
- applying everything i learn into a template to use for S2 episodes

**What I learnt:**
 
 - *Hosting*
   - see below

 - *Editing*
   - Use audio transitions between segments
   - flow in and out of anecdote and commentary with simple automation fades
   - use delays for weight
   - score usage for storytelling

### Content I consumed
1. Ira Glass guides
2. A lot of Fearless episodes
3. Some WAN show from LMG

**What I learned:**
- Storytelling: anecdote + reflection
  - anecdote: create motion, set bait
  - reflection: helps you connect to larger audiences
  - EXTRA step: stakes. Create stakes. The higher the stakes, the more the listener is dialed in. Stakes drive the story
- From WAN show:
  - take your ideas, bounce them around with people you trust and respect
  - Take ideas to the creation stage quickly. You're excited about the idea, everything is fresh in your head. Just go for it. Figure out the details on the way there

**How I'm applying this:**
- FT S2 will feature a lot more storytelling. It will have to be. soft introduction - disturbing the vibe of the show too much is not desired
- From WAN show: immediately deciding what some of my first S2 eps will be and going to work on them.

---
