---
title: "What You Can Expect on The Website This Month"
sub_title: "April - May 2021"
image: 
  path: /assets/images/posts/post13/thumb.png
  thumbnail: /assets/images/posts/post13/thumb.png
categories:
  - expect
  - schedule
excerpt: "My 20s, code editors, podcast editing, and weekly updates"
tags:
  - update
  - blog
  - thoughts
comments: true
---

In April 2021, I [made a commitment to make more content for the website](https://psaraswat.com/general/2021/04/22/newstrat.html). To make sure I deliver, I also promised a 'what you can expect this month' post every month.

This is the first edition of that post!

Here's everything you can expect on the blog and website this month:

### Classic post

The big, 'showpiece' post I'm writing this month will be about **how I'm approaching the next 4-5 years of my life**. I've written previously about [how I expected life to change](https://psaraswat.com/general/2020/07/01/career.html) as I finished formal education, and now, just under a year later, I've learnt a lot and want to share how I'm wrapping my head around the unstructured nature of my 20s. 

I hope to have it out by ~**29th of May** (these take time!).

### Hobby/skill based post

New genre! This month, I'm writing about how **I edit [podcast episodes]()**, and it should be out on or before the **15th of May**. [Let me know](mailto:parthswat@gmail.com) if you have particular questions and I will be sure to include answers in the final post.

### Technical Posts

Time to nerd out.

Expect a (kind of) technical post on how I use **VS Code for my day-to-day** on or before **7th** **May.**

- why should you care about your code editor?
- what shortcuts do I use?
- what extensions do I recommend?
- ...aaaand a bunch of other stuff.

The second tech post is going to be niche — I've been using **Veripool's Verilog Mode** at work and it has sped up parts of my process manifold. I've come up with a workflow I like to use, and hope that documenting it will help me come back to the workflow in case I forget steps. 

### Weekly posts

In addition to these 3-4 posts, I will also try to post ~once a week about topics that I've been thinking about a lot that particular week. As these will be ad-hoc and subject to my schedule, I don't know what they will be about, or even if they will happen. I hope they happen, though!

If you want to hear about these posts at the end of the month along with a catalog of all the podcast episodes of [Frndship Time](http://frndshiptime.com) (a podcast I started with my friend), you can sign up for my newsletter [here](http://eepurl.com/hfw9Nn)! I send these out at the end of the month, and no other spam. 

If I miss uploading one of these posts... feel free to shame me.

---

*See you next week for a new post.*

 *Thanks for reading! You can always [email me](mailto:parthswat@gmail.com) to chat about this post - or anything else.*

 ***As is true for any advice or counsel you ever receive: Y.M.M.V! Your mileage may vary. Some advice can be a vice. Feel free to take what you can use, and leave the rest. There are no rules.***